Kanye West made a series of incoherent
statements about race politics and
slavery in the United States of America
not the first time in his career and
probably not the last time these
comments in and of themselves would not
be worthy of commentary or analysis on
this channel however I'm making this
video in response to a reinterpretation
of those comments offered by Sargon of
Akkad so he had to go give me the
opioids and there was talks amongst my
camp like yeah he's popping gays popping
pills right so when he handed to me this
to me said you know this is used to kill
genius right so I didn't take it two
days later I'm in a hospital I was
taking two pills a day at that time when
I left the hospital how many pills you
think I was giving
sargon of akkad I feel has taken this
incoherent series of expostulations from
Kanye and he has tried to towards them
into a coherent thesis on race and the
burden of history when you hear about
slavery for 400 years for 400 years
that's how like a choice like he was
there for 400 years and as a Leo and as
Candis owns repeatedly points out none
of the people involved we're even living
under Jim Crow so to continue to be
talking about it now in 2018 so many
years after it ended is indeed a choice
but I think what he has to say to his
audience is more misleading than it is
false in that he only states his
argument negatively without being honest
though being forthright about what it
would mean have stated positively and
what the implications would be for black
people white people Native Americans
Jews Christians Germans poles really
much of anyone if they were to take his
stated philosophy to heart seriously so
you know this is put forward in a way
that may seem appealing may make sense
as an isolated hollow type you say a
unique single example but as soon as we
state it positively and start to broaden
out the implications it becomes clear
that his argument is in fact pretty
close to evil if anything on this earth
can be called evil what do I mean well
stated negatively Sargon of Akkad's
argument is that black people such as
Kanye West and his daughter should not
feel beholden to the history of slavery
they should not feel trapped with the
legacy of real historical events some of
them as long ago was 400 years some of
them obviously more recent they should
not feel trapped within an identity such
as the black American identity the
African American identity that they
should not feel that there is a burden
or set of expectations placed upon them
because of the past struggle for civil
rights the past struggle against slavery
etc etc now when it is just stated
negatively in this sense and again as
isolated examples
hollow type this may seem appealing to
you this may seem like a very morally
uplifting suggestion and he goes so far
as to say again he's really reading him
between the lines reading in between the
lines and editing and reordering the
totally incoherent statements made by
Kanye West but he manages to pick out a
fragment of Kanye saying that his own
daughter is somehow made to feel bad by
being told that she's black and up to a
certain point in her childhood she
didn't even know that she was black and
he pulls out some sort of reflections on
identity politics and the burden of
history along these lines would the
world be a better place if Native
Americans were raised with no memory of
the colonial history of North America
this has been tried in Canada we
actually have a long and terrible
history of separating our indigenous
people from their parents and raising
them as quote/unquote orphans although
they were not orphans their parents were
entirely alive and healthy they're just
stolen from their parents but being
raised as orphans by white people to be
integrated into white society and to
basically erase the history memory and
reality of colonialism what it means
these people and it was a disaster now
more broadly speaking this is a this is
a rare example of us actually being put
into practice in the world and being put
into practice with with state fiat do
you think today that if you go out and
visit a native reservation indigenous
people whether say the the Navajo Indian
Indians the United States the Jib way
who are both in Canada United States or
say the the Cree or the Inuit do you
really think it would be positive to
preach the moral that sargon of akkad
here is reconstructing from Kanye West's
incoherent ramblings to preach to them
that they shouldn't feel beholden to
their history that they shouldn't feel
that the history of the last 400 or
shall we say five hundred years in any
way to find their identity that they
shouldn't feel a sense of shame guilt
anger or or any other emotion that in
fact all of this should be dropped do
you think it would be a positive message
to tell these people that they would be
better off
in a state of ignorance than in a state
of knowledge about this history and now
contrast that to the diametrically
opposed positive position I'm using
positive in a logical sense here just
stating positively what the position is
the diametrically opposed position that
these people's lives would be improved
enriched enhanced if they were to know
more about their history now real
knowledge of their history is going to
reveal them all sorts of peculiar
contradictions I mean it's going to
reveal to them the fact that many Native
Americans precisely the way they were
colonized was not by being conquered but
they were employed as mercenaries by
European powers in Canada that's the
largest part of how Canadians conquered
this country was that the French and the
English both employed indigenous peoples
as mercenaries with the French fighting
as to English and English fighting
against the French and by the end of the
process the mercenaries were in effect
just as much conquered as the people who
hadn't participated in post wars um
there are you know bizarre and
unexpected contradictory contradictions
in understanding the rich complex
reality of that that kind of political
history and likewise if you really study
the history of slavery the slavery
particularly as it pertains to black
people and white people in Europe Africa
and North America you will find examples
of black people selling white people as
slaves you will find examples of black
people selling other black people's
slaves as black people who managed to
get rich off of black slavery and so on
there are such contradictions and this
doesn't challenge or overturn the
general significance of the thing but
you can have a more profound insight
into human nature a more meaningful
understanding of the history how it
shaped the current situation we're in
real warnings with real meaning for that
for the future itself and so on by
studying this history and the contrast
of this is and again I'm not actually
saying that Sargon's position is
nonsensical it makes sense it just
happens to be evil it's morally wrong
Sargon's position is that this kind
historical knowledge is going to put you
in a position of feeling shame of
feeling guilt or of demanding that
others feel guilt that it's going to
have emotional consequences that are so
negative that it would be better to feel
a sense of Liberty and self empowerment
through ignorance but I'm just living my
life day by day doing what I feel and
what the Spirit calls upon me to do
because I was drugged the [ __ ] out bro I
was drugged out we are drugged out
we are following other people's opinions
we are controlled by the media and today
it all changes we need to be free
thinkers then we need to know how to
feel free people say feel free but we
don't even know how to feel free or
think free but the thing is I think what
he's saying here is actually deeper than
what it seems it's not just the choice
to continually think and talk about
slavery even though that really hasn't
been something that has affected black
communities for quite some time the
problem is choosing to be a victim of it
to be the victim of a past that you
cannot seem to shrug off do you
sincerely believe that Jews would be
better off today if they had no memory
of the Holocaust this is an example of
an you know an historical event that
casts a very long shadow over some
people's lives some people do feel heat
and rage you know remorse shame guilt
there are all kinds of tremendously
strong passions attached to the history
of the Holocaust and they're they're not
just strong feelings for Jews they're
strong feelings for for the Polish for
Christians from Germany for Russians I
mean this is a you know an event that
had a tremendous impact on almost the
whole world would you extend this same
moral position you take in relation to
Kanye West and what he says about
blackness in the American experience the
african-american experience the legacy
of slavery would you extend this to Jews
or even just non Jews just say
Christians who happen to be born and
raised in Germany that they would be
better
living in ignorance to be in this sense
liberated from the burden of history you
know liberation is is easy to preach and
tough to practice in in this case I
think it's really important to point out
that what he calls liberation would
instead be living in ignorance and I I
you know what I have met some people who
really felt that way about history I
have met some people who just feel that
history is something that subtracts from
the present instead of adding to it I
had met some people who felt that they
personally would better off or their
friends and would have you be better off
if they could just close the door and
burn the books on that past experience
and I think the counter posing argument
to that is to say no it is what's called
new era thinking saying the the lessons
of the past don't apply to the present
they don't apply to the future
that there's nothing to be learned from
that I think that is in fact
tremendously dangerous and in terms of
how it applies to current and ongoing
political debates such as the status of
Native Americans in in the United States
of America African Americans the Cree
the ajooba way the anyway I think that's
not just a sort of fatuous and
self-serving ignorance I think it's a
form of ignorance that's both morally
irresponsible and in its way dangerous
George Bush doesn't care about black
people I've ever seen